The Joe Rogan experience. I, I tell you an interesting story. I was,
when we were making that film, there was, um, a point where we went down to the,
the IWC, the international whaling commission meeting down in, uh, in,
in Chi. And we were trying to get a,
an interview with some of the top people there from that run the,
the organization. And because, you know, whales dolphins,
are're killing them in mass. And we had the footage at that point,
and we were just hoping to get an interview with somebody that worked for the
international whaland commission. And, um, it was,
I think it was going from Houston to San Santiago. The plane was full.
I couldn't even sit next to the, you know, my, my partners on the,
my buddies and the, on the film crew, there was one empty seat next to me. And,
you know, they're waiting for somebody else to come from another flight.
And right before the, the plane door closes, comess a ki knockai,
he's the head of overseas fishing for Japan, the,
the head bull gooseling Looney. And he sits down right next to me.
I'm looking at my buddies, you know, uh, on the plane to think my God,
if there is a God, you, he has a good sense of humor. So he sat,
sit down next to me and be, I didn't want, you know, him to like,
find out who I was and then move.
So I waited till dinner was served like an hour or two later. And I said,
do you have any idea who I am? He said, no, I said, I know who you are.
I wanna show you a film. Yeah. And so we had a,
we had a condensed version of it, you know,
probably about 12 over 15 minutes of it at that point.
And I showed it to him and I said, how do you reconcile,
killing these sentient intelligent animals when you know that they're their,
their flesh is poisoned. You know, and you're,
there's recommendations for pregnant women to eat this, you know, this,
this flesh at, you know, on,
on the gen Japanese ministry of health site. And he said,
I'm not in charge of, uh, food safety. I'm in sure. In charge of food security.
In other words, he's, he doesn't have to worry about the health consequences.
Always he has to, his job is just to provide enough meat on the plate for the,
for Japanese people. And it gives you an insight of how he's thinking, you know,
he's in charge of, of, I think there was 145 million people in Japan,
in an area about the size of our California. He says 17% of, of the,
the land area in Japan is only, you know, uh,
good enough for growing crops on or living on were. We have to li you know,
turn to the sea for food. And at that point,
they were also caught skimming about 200,000 tons
of endangered blue. Ftuna this is over about a 20 year period. Now,
when you start talking about big numbers like that, I can't imagine, you know,
it's hard to imagine it, but imagine like, how are they stealing this tuna?
Well, they're, they,
they have quotas and they're exceeding their quotas every year. And,
but which means that they're taken away from other countries, right?
It's not just like everybody, every country has their allotment.
And once you've reached it, you're supposed to go home.
But the Japanese kept on getting more so that the Australians actually caught
them. You know, they figured out over a,
this 20 year period that they went through the books and saw what they reported
in was actually sold at thekegi market, found out they,
they had skimed 200,000 tons. That's five big train cars,
like trains full of, you know, endangered, tuna, like not cars,
but the whole trains, like 110 car trains, five of 'em full of, it's.
Weird to just reconcile the idea that tuna is endangered. You know,
you think of tuna as being something that you just get at the store like
tuna. Yeah. Tuna's a weird one, right?
Because it's such a common food it's in cans. You,
you see it at the sushi place, you know what I'm saying? Like to,
to hear that tuna's endangered, most people like cuz tuna, inangered like,
they're hearing this going is tuna endangered.
But when you talk to people that work at the fish market,
they they'll very clearly tell you that there's a radical difference between the
amount of tuna that was available 30, 40 years ago versus now.
10 Years ago. I mean,
we're down to blue fin tunas particular is down to about 90, uh,
it's down to 4% of their historical levels. That's incredible. Yeah. And.
And there's no way to stay this there's no, I mean, it seems like it's,
everyone's waiting for someone else to do something. And during the meantime,
everyone's just trying to make money.
A lot of money. Yeah. Unfortunately it's sort of the,
what happens with endangered species. The,
the more rare it becomes more valuable, it becomes.
And so there's very little incentive to do the right thing and
you know, but this is happening with all the fish docs. I mean, I,
I probably gave our, my,
I run a little organization called the oceanic preservation society and I
probably gave out more seafood guides than anybody on the planet.
This is the Monterey seafood, seafood, you know, watches like mm-hmm,
<affirmative> like what, what fish are sustainable. And I've seen them,
you know, go through the fish docs so less. And, you know, we,
we started at the big animals and we start to, you know,
slowly go through all the fish docs until like, we're, you know,
like McDonald's used to do haibit now it's, which is a very small,
you know, white fish from Alaska. And now that's being, you know,
had extinction. So we're going through these fish docs. It's, you know,
that's shifting baseline where you're seeing, you know,
each successive generation adapts to the diminishment of the, the previous one.
That's what that's going on. So I had just stopped, you know,
handing out seafood guyss and now I'm trying to sort of preempt it.
So I don't think, you know,
the big question is there's seven and a half billion of us on this planet soon
to be 10. Is there enough wild animals to feed us all there? Isn't, you know,
you look at the biomas of mamals on the planet, you know,
between livestock and humans, we, we, we occupy 90,
96% of the biomass of mamals on the planet.
4% are wild mamals and then, you know,
so we can't all be eating wild fish. You know, we, you think about that,
you know, you never go out and say, look, let's get some land food.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you, you know, we, we we've commodmodified, you know,
sea animals. That is.
Interesting. Right? You don't say land food. Yeah. That's a really good point.
You know, they did at the turn of the century, I mean, uh, during the, uh,
late 18 hundreds, rather there was market hunting in north America,
and a lot of the soldiers were done with world with, um, the civil war, rather.
They were hunting and they, they hunted all the deer, the bear,
the antelope, the Buffalo,
and they got down to like incredibly low numbers, you know,
elk to this day, I think are only in 10% of their original arranged that,
that they were at in the 17 hundreds.
And that was all from market hunting from people just going out,
buying, you know, meat from these, uh,
market hunters that have shot these things.
And they didn't really have refrigeration back then.
So it wasn't like they could freeze it and store it. And, uh,
they got down to these incredibly low levels until Teddy Roosevelt and a
lot of other people that were conservation minded realized like what was
happening here. And they put a stop to it all and then started, uh,
enacting programs to reintroduce these animals, to the,
the areas where they're extricrpated.
And now you see historic levels of especially Whitetail deer.
There's more Whitetail deer in America now than we're when in Columbus landed.
Wow. So, so, but there's, that's been success, but it's also,
that's a weird one too,
because ytail deer almost a farm animal because there's so many
of them that exist in Iowa and Kansas and around farmlands,
like they literally exist in fields and a lot of them live off of
GMO crops. So it's very strange. So like, I have a, a buddy of mine,
my friend, uh, Doug, Doug drin, who has this, uh, huge, uh,
piece of land in Wisconsin. And he's like,
the deer in my area are essentially eating these GMO corn.
They're eating Monsanto corn. Like, this is so weird. Like they, yeah,
they're wild, but the are also kind of farm animals, you know,
because they,
and they exist in record numbers because they've got so much food to eat and.
No predators.
Yeah. I mean the only predators they have there, I mean, they,
they have some wolves now, very few and some,
some parts of the driftlesss area in Wisconsin. I think they have,
they have some bears too. And coyotes, a lot of coyotes.
It will kill a lot of theaws.
I lived in Boulder, Colorado for a while and we had a,
a lot of bears and mountain lions come through our, our, our yard,
cuz we were right at the base of the foothills of the,
the Rockies and a neighbor. I woke up one morning,
the neighbor was like looking at his,
his mini van and there's a big dent in the side.
And he was trying to figure out like how to get a dent be,
cuz it was parked here all night and he found a, an antler in the bushes.
Oh and you thought, well, what the hell? How, how did,
and then the question is how does the deer run into it? And then in the paper,
the next day there was a picture of a mountain lion on a house, down the block,
sitting on a hot tub cover. This is in the winter holding a deer with one,
you know, in his mouth with one antler.
<Laugh> oh, so it didn't slammed it into, oh Jesus Christ.
I lost a dog in Boulder to Mount lion. Wow. Yeah.
I had a little dog. It was part, uh, American Eskimo P part Pomeranian,
mountain lion. Got it.
Oh the mountain lion, I think got our cat. Yeah.
They'll get everything up there, man. If it's not them, it's a Fox, you know,
there's a lot of foxes up there to get things, but God, it's beautiful. Yeah.
Boulders gorgeous, incredible, incredible place.
And you'll be driving down the road and you see it's weird.
Like the deer in Boulder know that they're safe. So like we were, we were, uh,
looking at this house in,
in Boulder and we opened up the door to the backyard and there was this enormous
deer just standing there staring at us. And my wife thought it was fake. I go,
no, that's a real deer. She's like what?
And then it just turns its head and starts moving around because it wasn't even
remotely freaked out that there were people, a stones throw away from it. Yeah.
They're just so used to being around people. It's weird.
Yeah. The neighbor, I remember a neighborhood,
ours plant rose bushes on the front of their property and you know, all proud.
And then I remember I was driving home like later on that day and they're so you
coming to, snippping the tops of the roses just going, oh, love it. Salad.
Bar. Yeah. Many people have turned on deer because of the loss of their gardens,
the roses, especially they love roses. Yeah. It's um, I don't,
is there anybody that has ever come up with any sort of a plan to do what they
did for wild animals in north America? Because it,
but I see you can't regulate it the way you can wild animals cuz in wild
animals, if they have a particular area, you could make it.
So people can't go in that area, but the ocean is so enormous.
Like how is anybody come up with some sort of a repopulation plan?
Sure, sure.
There's uh, uh, IEO Wilson. I'm on the board of uh, the advisory board of his,
his group is called the, you know, the half the halflife project. Um,
you know who IEO Wilson is? No. Okay. IEO Wilson is a Harvard professor. Um,
has two pillars for his work on in biology. He's a, um,
wrote the book on biodiversity. He's considered the father of modern, um,
biodiversity. He's about, um, getting right around 90 years old now.
But uh, looking at he,
he would do things like go to an island and pretty much exterminate everything
on it and then try to figure out, well, you know,
what rate do the animals come back and what's, what's sustainable.
And he's figured out that to save 85% of the,
the, the wild animals on the planet yet to put aside half of it for them,
you know, that's possible half of the planet, half the planet.
Yeah. So the ocean,
you would have to literally make half the ocean when people couldn't travel in
it, uh.
Not travel and it just not a exploit it, you know, through no fishing. Yeah.
No fishing. Yeah. And so Sylvia Earl is working on hotspots, you know, these,
uh, um, they're, they're called, I think what she, what she calls.
It's like a, like, like blue zones where, um, you know,
you have a lot of biodiversity, you know, try to keep those, uh,
away from fishing, uh, exploitation. How do they.
Do that though? Like how, I mean it's you would have to get everybody on board,
right? Yeah.
Well the high seas are, you know, that's, that's tough, right? Yeah.
Although the Japanese were fishing in a, you know,
international Marine sanctuary for decades, you know? So you have to,
you know, this is really tough when you have, um,
organizations that really don't have any tease to it. It's.
That the,
the attitude that he has that pragmatic attitude about feeding the population,
you almost can sympathize with him. Right.
I mean a hundred plus million in people in this tiny place,
the size of California and just
pulling mostly fish outta the ocean. I mean, it's a,
it's a crazy place to be in terms of his, his position.
Yeah. I mean, I, I don't enviate at all. Um, but you know, what, what do you do?
Some don't some.
Slaughter dolphins. That's what you do.
Yeah. Well or endangered species or, I mean, I, I don't know. What's um,
you know, what's sustainable anymore. I.
Mean, is it possible? I mean, I know they've done this in,
in some places outside of Hawaii where they've, uh,
they've bred animals, fish rather like sushi fish,
like hamachi and they've had these pens set up and then a lot of times, uh,
a storm will come by like a huge storm and they break these pens and then those
fish get wild. Then people start catching them.
Yeah. Well that's, I mean like, like Sam, like, well, you know, I went,
they were trying to, in Japan, when we were doing the Cove, we went to a,
a university where they were breeding the first blue fin tuna.
These are from eggsches, you know? So this is when, like,
like where they do at some places where they, they,
they catch 'em and then they put 'em in these pens and they fatten 'em up.
These were they're make making blue fin from scratch,
basically from eggs mm-hmm <affirmative> and really hard to do really skidish.
And when I went there, they were shoveling this, uh,
this is back when I ate fish. Um, they were shoveling these macro rolls,
like what I would feed my family with like a family of four,
they were shoveling it to the tuna. And I said, hold on a minute, like,
how many, how many, how much, you know,
macro does it take to make a pound of tuna?
And they said about seven for up until about 150 pounds.
And after it takes 14 pounds,
so seven pounds of wild fish to make one pound of farm raise fish. I mean,
this is like going to the bank and, you know, you know,
cuz you want a crisp $5 bill and say, you know, gimme a, you know,
here's a couple, a couple twenties. Wow. But that's, you know,
if you look at, you know, what are they feeding?
A lot of these fish are feeding 'em, you know, parts of farm animals and fish,
wild fish. Wow.
And I was just reading this morning of Los Angeles magazine that uh <laugh>
and the cover, it says, you know, fish fish are and it has, uh, and it,
it talks about like the fish that are raised and I, I dunno the data behind it,
but they're, they have eight times more pollutants in it than wild fish. Right.
Um,
I dunno if it's what they're feeding or maybe cuz they're sitting in a they're
stationary.
I think that's a big part of the problem mm-hmm.
<Affirmative> yeah. Yeah. And apparently they don't taste as well. But when we.
Were, um, in Hawaii recently.
Um, we went scuba diving and uh, you know, snorkeling.
So you jump off the boat and you're swimming around and you know,
what's really weird about that is how few fish there are.
Like when you're under the, you like you expect,
you're gonna dunk your head underwater with those goggles on. You're gonna see,
oh this, all these fish swimming around the Snells not much.
Yeah. You don't see much. Yeah. There was a about, uh,
10 years ago I was down in the Caribbean.
A friend was getting married and I took his daughter out to,
I didn't know it at the time, but it was her first time snorkeling.
And we were in an area that I'd been to about 20 years before.
And there was nothing, there was nothing there. It was just like a desert. Yeah.
And then I heard her screaming through a snorkel and I thought, what,
what what's wrong? And she was screaming cuz she saw a single orange tank.
That was the only life form we saw there where I used to see clouds of schools,
of these, you know, orange and blueang now there was nothing. And I thought,
my gut God, she thinks that that's beautiful. And it is, it's just, you know,
the single fish, but you know, again,
a shifting baseline the generation before when I was there was probably looked
like the land before time. Right. These places I went to with, with Clark,
you know, Raja, onpot where you'd see, you know, if you go to the Caribbean,
you might see 30 fish on a different species of is E fish on dive and,
and rajapi, you can see 300 and it was just miraculous.
And when you're taking pictures,
you actually see more detail with the picture than you can with your, your,
your eye can't comprehend it all.
So it's only when you get back and you see these reefs that we, you know,
we lit like jewel boxes. You see how much life that there is there,
but there was just, uh, unbelievable stunning amounts of, of wildlife.
But that's going on all over the world and the great bear reef, you know,
we lost over half the great bear reef in the last two years.
It was never that good. Anyway, you know, 15 years ago, I, you know,
after being to these,
some of the best preserved places in the world that I'd been to with Clark,
we looked at the Gary great bear reef and we'd be like, oh my God,
this is not that great. Now they've already, then they've lost half again.
So I mean,
if you're just the putting your head in the water for the first time and you
come from, you know, Iowa or Wisconsin or Boulder, that looks pretty good.
But if you knew what came before that you're, you're seeing this, this,
you know, assault against, you know, nature going on.
I.